To quote:

JDK 20 will deprecate all public constructors of java.net.URL.
See also the issue-tracker page, JDK-8294241 Deprecate URL public constructors.
To construct a file: based URL, Path::toURI should be used prior to URI::toURL.
… To construct a URL, the URI::toURL alternative should instead be preferred.
Quality Outreach Heads-up - JDK 20: Deprecate URL Public Constructors.
Note that this has nothing to do with namespaces.
To get what you want, you need to make sure that your Model object has the full URIs, and that, instead of trying add a namespace to the writer, you set its base URI when creating the writer.

...or more succinctly:

If you don't like having to write the full URI every time when creating your model, that's where namespaces can come in handy, for example:
If you have a base URI applied as here then the .uri(URI uri) will not be applied to the base URI but takes its place instead.
So in order to fix it you must use the overloaded .uri(String uri) method.
You can only use it with domain names (so the same as your URI, but without the protocol), like you pointed out with google.com.
You are giving a complete URI with protocol (https://) while only the domain is requested.
If you need to split the URI, you can use the split function, or do as explained here : Java URL Without Protocol
For your examples, you would get almost the same result with a slightly different spelling

which would produce your first example if expanded with [banana], and your second example with [banana, mango], except replacing your colon with a semi-colon.
Part of the legacy of matrix URLs is that we have URI Templates using Path Style Parameter Expansion -- which is to say that we have a general purpose way of describing a range of identifiers that include key value pairs like

Which would produce the matrix sample if expanded with a suitable map of values.
Note that this doesn't tell us anything about meaning; it's a purely mechanical way to expand/extract information in resource identifiers (provided you are willing to abide the spelling constraints).
You may find query parameters more convenient when: you expect to use HTML forms to capture the values that are going to be copied into the URI.
You may find path segments more convenient when: you want to use relative references to link to nearby identifiers in the same identifier hierarchy.
Check this answer on why a URL should not contain a literal space.
For instance, given a partially encoded URLs it isn't trivial to tell if a character such as '&' is part of a query parameter (and thus should be encoded) or acting as a separator (and thus shouldn't be encoded):

To add salt to the injury, Java's URI implementation deviates from RFC 3986 and RFC 3987 due to historical / backwards compatibility reasons.
Nevertheless, as someone that went down this rabbit hole before, I can tell you that once you know that you are dealing with incorrectly encoded URLs outside of your control there simply isn't a perfect solution.
This leads to ambiguity because certain characters can have different meanings when encoded vs unencoded.